hello math fans I am dr. Tom Crawford
from Tom rock smarts and I am a
mathematician at the University of
Oxford today's math sweet puzzle was all
about Ada ADA's class were told to form
teams of equal size for a math suite
competition but the problem was when
they tried to get into pairs
ada was left by herself they then tried
threes but again ADA was the only one
left without a team
groups of four didn't go much better as
once again ADA was the only person left
all alone but fortunately when they
divided the class up into groups of five
either had a complete team and
everything worked perfectly so the
question is how many people were in
ADA's class and here is how I thought
about the answer the first step is to
think about what each piece of
information tells us about the unknown
class size so the first thing we are
told is that when the class try to
divide into pairs ADA is left by herself
so this say is that the class size our
unknown number when you divide it by 2
you have remainder 1
now if you think a little bit about what
that means about our class size it tells
us that it must be an odd number because
we define even numbers to be numbers
that are perfectly divisible by 2 and
here we know that when you divide the
class size by 2 you have remainder 1
which tells you that it's an odd number
next the class tried to divide up into
groups of three and again there was a
remainder a single remainder which was
ADA so this tells us that the total size
of the class is not divisible perfectly
by 3 but not only is it not divisible by
3 it's exactly one more than a multiple
of three because we have a single
remainder which is ADA when we divide
the class size into threes so that means
that the class size must be a multiple
of three so a number in the three times
table plus one when trying to divide by
four we again have the exact same
situation the total class size when
divided by four gives you remainder one
because ADA is again left entirely all
alone so what that means for our rule is
that we have a multiple of four similar
to what we had in rule two except now we
must be one more than a number in the
four times table now the final piece of
information is that when the class
divided into groups of five it finally
works so this means that our class size
our unknown value we're trying to find
must be exactly a multiple of five it
must appear in the five times table so
now we have our complete set of four
rules we've used all four pieces of
information given to us in the problem
and we've written them out in four
mathematical rules which our answer must
satisfy so now we can start considering
possible numbers and see if we can find
one that satisfies all four rules to
start with I've just considered the
first 30 positive whole numbers and what
we're going to do is use these rules to
try and cross off which ones are
possible and see if we're left with a
correct answer now I should say at this
point that the answer could be more than
30 but to save me writing out every
single possible number I've decided to
start with the first 30 see if we can
get an answer if we can then great we've
solved the problem but if we can't then
I'll have to consider higher numbers but
for now this seems a sensible starting
point for a class size rule number one
says that our class size must be an odd
number so straight away we can just
cross off all of the e
numbers from our list rule number two
says the number must be one more than a
multiple of three so that means any
number here that's in the three times
table we can cross off and we can also
cross off any number that is one less
than a multiple of three so first of all
let's cross off the numbers in the three
times table so three six is already gone
can't be nine
we cannot be 12 that's gone can't be 15
18 s gone 21 34 s gone 27 and 30 is
already gone so again we crossed off
some more numbers and as I mentioned we
also need to cross off the numbers that
are two more than a multiple of three
because to satisfy rule number two we
can only be one more than a multiple of
three so that's going to mean five for
example is two more than three so that
cannot be possible to fit rules one and
two so five doesn't work seven is okay
because it's one more than six which is
two times three so we keep seven
thirteen is one more than 12 so that's
okay but 11 is not going down 17 that is
one less than 18 which is a multiple of
3 so that won't work it has to go 19 is
okay 23 is going to not be okay 25 is
fine and then 29 is one less than 30 so
that doesn't work either
on to rule number three we have the same
idea we want to cross off anything
that's in the four times table and also
anything that is two more than a
multiple of four or three more than a
multiple of four because by rule three
we can only be one higher than a number
in the four times table so one is okay
seven is not okay
because it's three more than a multiple
of four so we cannot have seven then we
can have 13 I think
multiple of four yes 12 is three times
four plus one that one is okay then 19
is not allowed
because that's going to be three more
than 16 multiple of 425 4 times 6 is 24
plus 125 is okay and that's it so now
from the first three rules we're only
left with I think just three
possibilities we've got one 13 and 25
and now the last rule rule number 4 says
that our answer the class size must be a
multiple of 5 it must be perfectly
divisible by 5 so 1 is going to be fail
now 13 is also going to fail and that
leaves 25 5 times 5 as the only
remaining number in the first 30
positive whole numbers so the answer
satisfying the four rules is going to be
25 and so the class size is 25 Ava's
class has 25 people and that is the
solution to today's puzzle
you